[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Many of
you have seen Gaia's Sean
Stone hosting the show Buzzsaw.
We thought you might want to get
a closer glimpse into his life
and his viewpoints.
So here's Sean.
I love this.
We had a blast when
we were doing it
the other way around last time.
At least I did.
I mean, I just really like--
I just kind of like the
lightness of your being
that is combined with, at the
same time, really reflective,
kind of deep intelligence.
And I think you bring a
wonderful combination that way.
>>SEAN STONE: Yeah, there was
a great quote a friend of mine
told me in high school.
He said, you know, on the
surface, you seem superficial.
But once you get to know
you, you're really deep.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: You said,
I'll take it, right?
[LAUGHTER]
And so in your life, you
know, a lot of people
obviously are very
curious about you,
because they have been aware
of or a fan of your dad's work
for so many years.
And yet, this legacy continues.
So I really want to
find out essentially
where metaphysics
started entering
your viewpoint in life, because
you were exposed to so much
as a child.
And then after
that, I want to get
into how some of the projects
your dad was working on
were affecting you as a little
kid, watching all of this.
>>STONE: Yeah, sure.
So metaphysics-- I
mean, it's interesting,
because sometimes you hear
stories of people who grew up
at four or five, six, or
somewhere in that age range,
and having UFO
encounters, for example.
They have memories of
seeing alien beings
or imaginary friends, right?
Things like this.
And in reflecting
on my childhood,
I always said, it's strange.
I don't recall anything in that
vein that was supernatural,
that was far out.
It was a very ordinary--
as I could imagine--
ordinary childhood.
Protected, being very close
to my mother, having friends.
But there was, I guess, at
five, four or five years old,
I did have some--
I remember dreams and thoughts
that were very metaphysical,
you could say.
Basically--
>>REGINA: Share.
>>STONE: --imagining--
well, just imagining, well,
you're told about
Heaven as a child.
And I don't know
what people think.
Personally, I thought,
well, wait a minute.
Heaven is a place
where you can go
and you can do everything
you want, all day, everyday.
So I'm a child.
I'm thinking, here, I can go
to Heaven and it's amazing.
It's light, and
every day you play,
and you get to play and play,
and play, and play, and play,
and play.
And you start to
imagine infinity.
And you start to delve into
this concept of infinity.
And wait a minute.
If you can just do whatever
you want every day,
that becomes a type of torture.
It becomes a--
>>REGINA: That's very
astute for a five-year-old.
>>STONE: Yeah.
And this notion
of, wait a minute.
I don't know if
that's Heaven anymore,
because you're
getting whatever you
want all the time, immediately.
And I think that,
in a sense, I then
started saying, well,
maybe that's not reality.
Maybe that Heaven
is not a real one,
because it becomes
like a torture.
And then on the other extreme,
if you say that at death,
there's only darkness
and black night,
and you just imagined
sort of this--
>>REGINA: Worms.
>>STONE: Well, no.
Just this tomb of darkness.
Yeah.
But like nothing.
Not even worms.
Just sensory deprivation.
Wow.
That's pretty frightening too.
[LAUGH]
So from there, you start
to delve into these other--
those are two extremes.
And you start to delve
into other aspects of what
actually does happen.
And then I went with my father
to India at 10 years old,
and he taught me
about the third eye.
He taught me about Buddhism
and concepts of reincarnation.
And I said, well, that actually
probably makes more sense
to me, the idea that we're
on this soul's journey,
and each lifetime is lived so
that we can basically acquire
wisdom and understanding.
And basically,
there's some teleology
as far as our journey of
where we're aiming to go,
and we don't know
how many lifetimes
it'll take to get there.
And the lifetimes can
take us beyond this world,
to other worlds.
So then you get into this
concept obviously of aliens,
and you start to read
books like, in my case,
David Icke and Jim Marrs
and others and saying, OK.
Maybe there's an alien reality
that existed that actually not
only seeded mankind,
the Zecharia Sitchin
interpretation of the
Sumerian accounts, obviously,
but there are others.
And they seeded mankind.
And then if there
are aliens that
have been here since the past,
maybe they're still here.
And maybe our future
is an alien future.
So I would say this has been my
process, basically, of evolving
in the metaphysical direction.
>>REGINA: It's very organic,
and also, it was very reflective
for someone that young.
When did you start tapping
into the work of people
like David Icke, for example?
>>STONE: Yeah, I mean, I came
about when I was 17, actually.
I was at one of those
magical bookshops, I think.
There's a few of them around
in places like LA and New York.
And so in LA, I went to
one of the bookshops,
and I was digging through
the conspiracy section.
And we'll talk about the
other conspiracy angle,
because obviously, I knew
about conspiracies from--
>>REGINA: Well, we're going to
talk about that in just a sec.
>>STONE: Yeah, the
historical perspective.
But you know, being in a
bookshop and reading conspiracy
books, and "The Biggest
Secret" popped out to me.
I think was "The
Biggest Secret."
And it was just sort of
gigantic in its scope.
And I've always been
interested about history.
So to me, it was
like a gateway drug.
It opened the door to this idea.
What are Masons?
What are Templars?
What is this Hermetic
Gnostic tradition
that we see in art and
certain depict-- basically,
certain secret society
portrayals of history
that is the alternative
path, basically,
if you look deeper
beneath the surface.
And then he introduced me to--
his book introduced
me to Sitchin,
and I read "The 12th
Planet" and that series.
So really came through
17, 18, that time period.
Going off to college, I became
more aware, I would say,
of these concepts of
multidimensionality.
But again, I never
experienced it.
This was all from an
intellectual perspective,
someone who was trying
to understand the world
purely as an
intellectual scholar,
or someone who's going
to-- at that time,
I was going to Princeton.
I wanted to study history.
I was very keen on
scholarship and reading
and having citations
and sources and not--
you can speculate and
obviously have fun with that,
but when it comes to
delivering a paper,
you have to be balanced and
grounded in what can be proven.
So that was my journey up
till the post-college era.
>>REGINA: And did it create
a little bit of a split
in at least your
desire and where
you wanted to go in
your mind to be exposed
to all the conspiracy and
the notion of other worlds,
ETs and other developing
civilizations here,
and then have to be incredibly
academic at the same time?
Did you have fellows that you
could chat with about this?
>>STONE: Not really.
Actually, it was a
lonely time, I would say.
Actually, it was a hard thing.
It was a very
isolating experience,
being in high
school and college.
Because on one hand,
like you said, I was,
A, I was interested
by these things
that were extradimensional.
But at the same time, I was
still grounded in my studies,
and I was also-- you know,
it's an internal journey.
It's a very lonely journey.
>>REGINA: It's like
you have to seal off
one part from the other.
>>STONE: Correct.
And that's, I think, what
happened, what did happen.
Because I remember at
13, actually, about 13 I
was in Vietnam with my father,
and we were going there,
him as a veteran
of the Vietnam War.
He'd been there before many
times, but he took me there.
And we basically relived
this very beautiful journey
through from the tunnels of Cu
Chi, Saigon, Hanoi, Da Nang,
all these different places.
And he was haunted by it, but
he was exploring it with me
and sharing the country with me.
And when we were
there and looking
at the museum and
the war museum,
and reflecting on the
millions of Vietnamese that
had been killed and
traumatized by this war,
I started downloading
really interesting imagery
of a new world order, basically.
I had no idea what
the concept was.
I don't even know if
I'd heard the term.
But essentially, I
was seeing this map--
sorry, the flag of the
United States transforming,
and basically, a globe
was replacing the stars.
It was basically
saying, there's a story
being downloaded about
how the world was going
to become organized under one--
>>REGINA: That certainly
was where it was fomented.
Vietnam War was a
big part of that.
>>STONE: Perhaps.
I mean, but it was weird to
download this information
at 13 about global
governance, and the idea
that Lucifer or some
kind of satanic figure
was really behind
it, and they were
going to use the pretense
of de-disarming everyone,
bringing everyone--
de-nuclearization as a process,
basically.
It's ultimately put the
power into one hand, which
is ultimately the devil's hand.
And the devil is going to use
it to destroy America first,
and then the whole planet.
And this was just a story that
downloaded to me at that time.
It was very visual.
I wrote a script of it.
But it was weird, because I
had not heard this concept--
>>REGINA: And how old were
you again at that time?
>>STONE: 13.
>>REGINA: 13.
Right, yeah.
>>STONE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So your mind was already
beginning to put pieces
together in original ways.
Were you able to always
talk with your-- well, both
your mother and father,
were you able to talk
over these various
concepts with them?
Were they open to all of the
things that you were exploring?
>>STONE: I mean, you know,
my father is someone who is
actually very--
I would say rational
and materialistic
in terms of his
thinking about reality.
He's someone who takes
the Buddhist perception.
And all of reality is
the mind, basically.
So if you believe
in ghosts, if you
believe in gods and devils and
all this, it's ultimately--
it's only as true as you
believe it to be, right?
He would take that perception.
And so when I wrote this
script, for example,
he couldn't understand at all
the concept of the devil figure
being a real character and
all these supernatural forces
that, to me, actually
make more sense
having lived through it later.
But at the time, it was
literally just an imagination
of a kid who's--
frankly, I've always been
interested in sword and sandal
fantasies, sci-fi, I
think, more than him.
And it reflects in
his work, you know?
He's someone who's very
much a rationalist.
If you look at his project,
they're always biographies.
They're always rooted
in the real world.
"The Doors" may be the
most esoteric of the pieces
where they have a bit of
the ghosts of the Indians
intruding into it.
But again, he would say, it's
all the mind, the mindscape.
>>REGINA: But didn't you say
when you were in India that he
was turning you on to these
other higher concepts,
including reincarnation?
Where does that work with him?
>>STONE: Because
it's just the mind.
It's the mind that carries
over from body to body.
>>REGINA: I see.
So nothing empirical
other than just
whatever the thought
is able to create.
>>STONE: Right.
Precisely Nothing in
terms of, I would say,
the extraterrestrial,
esoteric domain.
>>REGINA: That's
where he would stop.
>>STONE: Right.
>>REGINA: But he
obviously is intrigued
with alternative
versions, concepts.
I mean, he does brilliant work
as bringing up the conspiracies
in the rational world.
But you're taking that further.
And what about your mother?
How is she wired in terms of--
>>STONE: She's someone
who believes in angels.
She believes very much
in these principles.
On the other hand,
you know, she's
not someone who
practices religion.
You know, she was born Catholic.
Really more of a Protestant.
But then, I mean,
basically lapsed
because the Catholic
church, as we
know, the way that
they'd school you,
the nurses would
whip them, basically.
They'd crack their
knuckles with rulers.
They were very abysmally cruel.
So she ran away from
the Catholic church,
went to the Protestant side.
But ultimately, she took
me to the Self-Realization
Fellowship, you know,
Yogananda's thing.
>>REGINA: There you go.
Yeah.
>>STONE: And that was a
really important thing
in my upbringing, was
actually to worship and study
from all texts.
You know, that was
the concept was
you go to the
Self-Realization Fellowship
and you would hear a
sermon, and it could
be quoting from the Quran.
It could be from The Vedas.
It could be from
Buddhist teachings,
it could be Daoist,
Christian, Jewish.
You basically
honored the one god,
which all the fates
are basically derived
from a one-source concept.
>>REGINA: Well, and now,
if you go from there,
it doesn't really matter which
of those traditions you follow.
They'll all go into the
notion of dark realms.
Humans interfacing with the
great challenge of dark realms.
And that gets us to the
area of multidimensionality,
and this feeling
that you've always
had that there's
something watching,
and maybe perhaps
more than watching.
So I think this would be a
good time to get into that.
In your perception,
having thought
this over most of your
lifetime, what do you
think it is that's
interfacing with humanity
or watching or interfering?
And what do you feel
the purpose of it is?
>>STONE: Hmm.
Well, it depends if I'm--
>>REGINA: Take your time.
>>STONE: --in a good
mood or in a dark mood.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: OK.
Let me set it up this way.
It should be known that
all those traditions also
have the higher realms
intersecting with this plane
that human beings live on.
We have the lower
and the higher.
>>STONE: Precisely.
Precisely.
I mean, there is a
truth to the idea
that it's about perception.
How do we want to
perceive things?
I've had initiation
journeys where I recognized
the devils were actually
just the angels' wings,
and basically they were
wearing masks to scare people,
essentially, to
test you, to see,
are you courageous enough to
face those demons, a darkness,
and not be afraid?
If you are afraid, they
have power over you.
They will get you into
all kinds of traps.
And that's the way I see it.
I see it like a soul journey,
where basically, your soul
is being tested.
Where does it stand?
Does it want to basically bow
down to the rulers, the kings,
the people with money that--
the illusion of power?
Those demons, do you
want to bow to them?
Do you want to make
deals with them
to increase your own power
within this physical realm?
Because we know
it's all transitory.
It's all illusion in that
sense that it won't last.
So is it really worth
trading our soul energy,
that initial light,
spark that comes
from the primordial
source, is it worth
trading this goal that is
within us already innately
for some fool's gold that
is offered along the way?
And so many people are
willing to basically trade
what is most valuable, what is
the thing that they actually
want most, which is to
actually return to source,
which is actually to
shed light and commune
with other beings in a pure
sense, in a loving sense.
And they're willing to trade
that for a temporary moment
of satisfaction, comfort.
And obviously, it's a difficult,
tremendously difficult journey.
I mean, you can't
answer for everyone
and tell them, you know,
what they need to do,
because ultimately,
it's their own course.
Sometimes you have to go through
the hells to experience that.
That's what you
were meant to do.
So I really can't condemn
people for being, to my mind,
wicked or cruel or mean or evil.
It's their own path.
And all I can do is recognize
maybe where they went wrong
and where I would want
to basically not follow
that same trajectory.
>>REGINA: So on a larger level,
do you believe that the darker
realms--
we would call them darker
realms-- the challenging realms
and the lighter realms or
those that choose to or assist
in upliftment are
of the same source,
and are simply playing
out their own roles
here in terms of their
interface with humanity?
>>STONE: Yes, of course.
We know that if there is a
primordial light that casts out
and then basically continues to
shine throughout the universe,
but then it also slows
into material forms, right?
Matter itself is a different
expression of that same energy.
And it's slowed down energy.
It's basically-- it's
light in slow motion.
And when that matter
forms, it casts the shadow.
So the shadow is a necessary
consequence of the light,
like the Zorastrians
would put it, right?
There's always going to
be the dark and the light,
and that you have to respect
and honor that, and know,
I would say, even in Kabbalah
and other spiritual traditions
to understand that there
is always a time for war,
there's a time for peace.
There's a time to be severe,
there's a time to be lenient.
We have to recognize
this balance.
And it's a difficult
thing, right?
Because not everybody can
get to that place of wisdom,
that place of a King Solomon,
to understand essentially
how to be just, how to rule,
how to basically wield the left
with the right in harmony.
Most people, I would say, are
struggling with that concept
throughout their lives.
So yes, to answer
the question, is
it "all a stage" like
Shakespeare said?
I believe so.
I think it's all a
game, and each one of us
playing the role that resonates
with our soul and, again,
our journey.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
agree with that.
I mean, to not demonize
the lower realms,
because they are forming--
they're performing their own
function for their own growth.
That is the field in which
they play to learn themselves.
But to respect it.
But again, go ahead and--
>>STONE: Well, they work--
the interesting thing is that
we can feel the lower realms
within us at any moment, right?
The places-- there
was a time in my life
after college when I went to
explore haunted realms, haunted
mental hospitals, for example.
Haunted houses, places that
were very cursed by death,
by madness.
And you could feel the energies.
You could feel the
heaviness and the pain.
And that's where the demonic
realm lives vibrationally,
right?
So within your own being, if you
operate from a place of fear,
from a place of suffering and
self-pity and anger, hatred,
the demonic--
those entities resonate
at the same vibration,
and they'll attach.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>STONE: And then it's like the
more they attach, obviously,
the heavier you become.
They weigh you down.
You get caught into these cycles
of being within the lower realm
yourself.
It's a type of hell that
you go through, right?
>>REGINA: Pure resonance.
>>STONE: But the goal
to me would be letting
go of those lower frequencies.
OK, see it, face it,
let it go, transcend it,
raise the vibration.
Raise yourself into a place
at least of neutrality,
if not higher, being resonant
with joy, love, care,
consideration, respect.
And from there,
basically in that journey
of raising the vibration, those
demons either will fall away,
or some of them
may rise with you.
>>REGINA: Right.
To unselect, no longer
choose to go into resonance
with it, which is not
as easy as it sounds.
Once your frequencies
have been lowered,
it takes a little work to start
bringing yourself back out
of it, but it all begins
with a choice, right?
>>STONE: It does
begin with a choice.
Everything we do-- what we
choose to eat, for example.
You know, that's obviously
affecting our body, right?
And from there,
you know, what you
choose to eat, listen to,
pay attention to, focus
your energy on, speak.
Right?
That's why the traditions are
always about right intention,
right speech, right thought.
Well, right thought
before the speech.
Then right deed, right action.
>>REGINA: Right.
So what do you feel about
essentially the state of media
right now, where so much
darkness is being perpetuated?
And its role in society.
>>STONE: Yeah, you know,
it's just-- it's sad to me
mostly that anyone actually
believes it anymore,
because to me, it's become
so flagrantly apparent
that they're brainwashing us.
The fact that you can turn on
a channel, any of these news
media channels, and
essentially, it's
the same story running
all day, right?
>>REGINA: Same language.
>>STONE: Same language,
but same story.
There's nothing else
happening in the world.
So that should already
be an indication,
the fact that the movies
are more and more rehashing,
repeating the same storylines.
Basically, they're
remaking the same movie.
They're retelling
it over and over.
What does that mean?
It means that we're
stuck in a cycle
that we have to break out of.
We have to step-- break out
of it by stepping away from it
and saying, OK.
I don't choose to focus
my energy there anymore.
I like to go back
and just watch--
if the movies aren't
interesting, I go back
and watch the classics.
You know, I'll read a book.
I'll separate myself
from these things that
are basically just trapping
us into these games,
because it is a labyrinth.
The labyrinth of the mind is
the most terrifying thing.
That was the essence
of the film I
did that was based on my
experiences ghost hunting.
"Greystone Park"
was about the idea
that this mental
hospital was a labyrinth.
And when the characters
went in there,
they basically went inside
the labyrinth of the mind,
and all their fears
started to manifest.
First the shadows,
and the shadows
got more and more energy
and became the various ghost
stories that they'd heard at
the beginning now starting
to take form, and actually
scare them and attack them.
But it's ultimately our own
mind that's projecting out.
The same with the
shadow, it's always you.
But the more you get
lost in the labyrinth,
you forget that
it's your shadow,
and you start to see
it as something else.
And that's where we are.
I think we're in this place
of the mind's labyrinth
not realizing those shadows,
those fears are really just us.
And we have to either step
back, shed light on it,
ignore it, change focus.
That's the only way to
get out of the labyrinth,
because the labyrinth
has no exit.
You just go deeper and deeper
the longer you walk into it.
And you just sit there,
actually sit inside of it,
and create your own world.
>>REGINA: Right.
And in the Hermetic
tradition, all is mind.
All is projected from mind.
Doesn't mean you don't have
love, compassion, emotions,
companionship that take
into consideration.
But the entire stage is of mind.
And so again, having that will--
and I think a lot of people
have lost sight of what
the word will actually
means, and get it
confused with willful
versus using the right
use of will, as you say,
to make choices that
are more clean and more
lifting your own game.
More refining in nature.
And so on that, I just
had to make this comment.
I did a show with--
I think his name is
Michael Esposito.
I'm terrible with names.
Lovely man, but he's
in our archives.
I think it's Esposito.
And it had to do with--
he was in the
recording industry,
and he goes around to asylums,
especially abandoned asylums,
old asylums, and he records the
beings that are living there.
With the way he's engineered
his recording technology,
he actually picks
up in the others
subtle dimensions their words.
And it's fascinating.
[LAUGH]
He gave me-- I mean, it's
got to be the weirdest record
anyone possesses.
I have this record of
these ghostly recordings,
and the most popular
word is the F word.
It's just repeated.
So much anger is being
projected from their realm,
this entrapment, that the
F word comes up repeatedly
on his recordings.
>>STONE: And what do we
know about the nature
of language and vibration?
For example, we know
from various studies done
by the Japanese scientists--
I think the Russians
replicated it-- but basically,
some scientists have shown
that when you play frequencies
of sound of music, the
water actually takes--
water molecules, they
take certain formation.
And so when it's harmonious
and beautiful, uplifting sounds
in music, obviously,
they create the hexagon,
which is the natural snowflake
formation of water molecules.
And what it's F words and
basically like swearing,
cursing, hatred, vitriol--
>>REGINA: Really ugly
formations take place.
>>STONE: And what do we know?
We are water mostly.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>STONE: So what does
that mean about exactly
the precise words, the
languages that surround us,
the power of vibration
through music,
through media, all these
different sources of control
that are really
subliminal, because they're
affecting our water structure.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And that ghostly realm
is programmed in the way
that you understood
when you were
putting that film together.
It is a darkly afflicted place
of entrapment for these beings.
>>STONE: Yeah.
Yes.
Thankfully, Greystone
was demolished actually,
a couple of years ago.
So that's--
>>REGINA: Thank God.
Let it disperse.
>>STONE: I hope they don't build
some real estate on top of it,
then we'll become
like "Poltergeist."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>STONE: They'll
make the sequel.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>STONE: It's just
"Poltergeist."
>>REGINA: So you've always,
from the time you were born,
understood the power of film.
And so let's talk about
that for a moment,
and then I want to start
going into the secret society
and other conspiracies that
you wrote your book about.
>>STONE: So the power--
well, the power of film?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Because obviously, this has
been inculcated into you
on a cellular DNA
level from birth.
>>STONE: Right.
Well, what do you take
as the power of film?
What is the power
of film to you?
>>REGINA: Personally,
I mean, I've
always been obsessed with
film since I saw my first one,
you know, probably at
three years of age.
And I think what it
is is to take whatever
the condition in life is and to
blow it up to such an extreme
that you actually have
to absorb yourself into.
And I'm like a
five-year-old at the movies.
I can't separate.
I try to say, no.
There's a boom.
There's a mic just
above this shot.
I still can't separate
myself from it.
Because watching
that roll out tends
to have a very deep impact
on the emotional body,
the emotional aspect
of human beings,
more than the intellect.
Because when you're like
this, looking into a camera
and someone is speaking
to you into a camera,
that much more
engages the intellect,
but the emotions are
completely impacted and engaged
and manipulated through film.
So you can manipulate
them wisely.
I love making
documentaries and films,
but I know that I'm
manipulating when I'm doing it.
The first thing I
choose is the music.
First thing is I know what
I want the message to be.
Next thing comes the
music that will drive
the emotions of that message.
Then comes the color.
Then comes the imagery.
The last thing I put
together is a script.
So that's what it
is to me, is to help
inculcate a certain
understanding into humanity.
You can choose the
message, because we
can receive it in
a different way
through films than
anything else.
>>STONE: Precisely.
It's the new form of
religious experience.
It basically--
>>REGINA: It's larger than life.
>>STONE: --replaced the
religious experience
for a lot of people.
And it is the "Wizard of
Oz," and that concept of, you
don't see the man who's
really orchestrating it.
It's usually the
director with conjunction
with certain producers,
and obviously
studios having their
say in the matter.
So you don't see
their hands guiding
the actor whose face becomes
the expression of whatever
dreams you have, whatever
dreams, longings, fears,
hopes are expressed
in those faces.
I think you expressed
it very well.
We know the power of film on the
unconscious mind in particular,
because it's the
nature of magic.
I mean, once you create
the set and setting,
you darken, you know--
>>REGINA: It bypasses the
intellect and conscious mind.
>>STONE: Exactly.
Darkened auditorium.
You focus on the screen.
Dim the light, the
candles or light.
And then you have the light
projected onto the screen
like the shadows of a cave.
And next thing you
know, we are basically
sharing in this experience.
It could be cathartic,
it can be frustrating,
whatever it may be.
But it's basically planting--
sometimes they say
it's preprogramming
or predictive programming.
They're creating
certain conditions
that they want us to ultimately
accept later on by first
showing it to us on screen.
So hence, when 9/11 occurred,
my young cousin said,
it's like a movie.
And he was about
seven years old.
>>REGINA: He got it.
Play the same thing
over and over.
>>STONE: Yeah.
Yeah.
So the power of film,
obviously, we realize.
And it's a dangerous power.
Because on the one
hand, you think
of the theater and reading,
and it leaves a lot more
to the imagination.
There was a social impact--
there's a social impact
and a social relationship
to theater and the
stage, going back
to the Greeks and all the way
through Shakespeare's time.
You would go, you
hear the play, and it
was played out by a man on
a stage, and even females.
And basically, you knew
that it was a play.
But you would hear the
words, and your mind
would go elsewhere, and you'd
start to envision the world.
>>REGINA: You weren't
overwhelmed by the experience.
>>STONE: Precisely.
Yeah you would
envision the world.
So with reading,
you read a book,
and you envision another world.
And now because
we've become entirely
visual, as far as our
recognition of the reality
out there, that we are
easily overwhelmed.
We're not able to actually
bring our own imagination
into play the same way.
And I think there's
certainly that's being
lost more and more by the
way that media in general
has become so graphic.
You go back and you
watch the films up
through about the '70s,
and there was still
a certain sense
of, we don't have
to show the guts
coming out of somebody.
You don't have to show two
people having sex in bed
to get the power of
their relationship.
You could still leave
things to the imagination.
>>REGINA: You could allude.
Yes.
>>STONE: And it
wasn't to say that I'm
in favor of censorship.
But I just think that
there's something
that's lost in our ability to--
it's almost poetry.
There's a notion of irony in us.
We have to fill in the blanks.
It's like when you listen
to classical music,
you have to have patience to
actually wait for the breath.
You don't have to have
everything instantaneously.
I think that's where
we are being shifted
by the media in
general into this place
of instantaneous gratification
and the inability
to actually figure things
out for ourselves or realize.
Like when you watch news,
for example, what happens
at the edge of the frame?
Well, the reporter
may not even be
in the city they claim to be in.
They're really in a hotel.
They're nowhere near-- they're
nowhere near the attack.
>>REGINA: In beds in hotels.
>>STONE: Precisely.
But it's equated how they--
and once you understand-- so
I grew up learning the power
of film, as you understood
from making a documentary,
when you understand everything
is about how you frame,
where you make the
cut, how you use--
>>REGINA: Everything
lays an impression.
>>STONE: And next thing
you know-- exactly.
You are influencing and
manipulating people.
So it's an inevitable
consequence of being a creator.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
But I agree with you--
>>STONE: --inspire people to--
that they basically are
inspired by your film
or have to fill in
the blanks sometimes.
That they themselves
can walk away and feel
that they are co-creating.
>>REGINA: Or leave
it with a question.
>>STONE: It could be--
I mean, I think
it's interesting.
I think that's the
interesting aspect.
And oftentimes, you find
it more with sci-fi,
and again, things that embrace
that spiritual domain to say,
let the audience
fill in the gaps.
Let them start to
imagine and play.
And that's what we've
seen over the most--
the most successful
films, actually,
are the ones kind of
like the "Star Wars"
and the "Harry Potters"
and "Game and Thrones"
will actually go
out, and they start
to create their own
worlds from it, right?
That's what I think
you want ultimately.
We want for humanity to become
co-creators in our reality.
We want humans to embrace
their own creative aspirations,
their own creative beings to
express them more and more,
rather than depending on the
little man by the curtain,
whether it's the mainstream
media, filmmakers, producers,
studios to tell them what
to do and how to live.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I couldn't agree more with you,
and that's beautifully stated.
And that takes us
right into conspiracy,
because there is an
apparent agenda that
would see to it that
we have attention span
shortages, to see that our
neural networking has been
re-engineered to
the extent we really
can't even hold a willful
thought, no less a thought
of our own, for very long.
And it's happening now
at an alarming rate
among little children,
where I really
look at what's happening
for little kids
just through the use
of video games alone.
I know that it can
explore into new realms,
and it certainly
quickens the speed
at which the brain operates.
But I look at the
inability to focus
in the really young
generation right now,
and what that's going
to look like as they
get a little older?
How do you then
re-engineer that?
And let's take that into
the conspiracy at large.
[SIGH]
>>STONE: The conspiracy
to create ADD?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Among many others.
>>STONE: Essentially,
I think the real goal--
and some have talked about
the cybernetic agenda,
transhumanism.
The goal is to essentially
merge humans with machines.
It's being done already.
They're chipping employees
in Sweden, I've heard,
and other places, and
the employees love it.
They said, you know, great.
I could open the door faster.
I can use my chip
as a debit card.
I mean, it's insane.
>>REGINA: I just heard an NPR
program on this the other day,
and I thought, oh, God, guys.
Don't give it a voice.
But it's there.
We need to look at it
and examine it now,
because it's there.
It's being done.
>>STONE: Precisely.
So you know, the
globalization thing
has been positive
in so many ways.
We love the fact
that we can not only
see people from all
different cultures
and embrace them as our cousins,
brothers, neighbors now.
We can eat food--
my Dad would tell me--
>>REGINA: We love
fusion cuisine.
>>STONE: My dad
in the '70s would
say, New York City, it was like,
you know, the food was awful.
And then the '80s
started to get better.
By the '90s, it was
like you could actually
have Japanese and Indian and
Chinese and all-- well, Chinese
by the '70s.
But you had all these global
foods coming together.
So it's wonderful to see
this aspect of globalization,
which is trade, and bringing
the best of cultures together.
The danger of globalization
is when you destroy cultures
to this notion of market-based
morality, basically.
So it's like, if the
corporation decides
what's right, if people are
buying from Starbucks, that's
what's right.
It doesn't matter if
they're using slaves,
if they're destroying
local coffee growers
and, you know, poor people being
able to grow their own coffee.
If those people are
being basically decimated
by Starbucks as a corporation
growing and expanding,
so be it.
People like Starbucks, right?
That's the mentality of
the corporate morality.
And it's not morality.
>>REGINA: It's not morality.
>>STONE: But that's
the real dark side,
the ugly side of
globalization has been about.
And I think that when it comes
to this merging of humanity,
it's as though we see it already
like in the fear of Islam
and whatnot.
It's like, you can't have a
different way of dressing.
You can't have a
different way of being.
You know, I'm not
talking about terrorists.
I mean, that's a very small--
>>REGINA: Supposedly
for their own good.
To protect them from the
wrath of the intolerant.
But that's not really it.
>>STONE: It's just one
expression of one culture
amongst many.
But many cultures have
very similar practices
when it comes to
the relationship
and the roles of man and woman.
It has to do with the cultural
dress and traditional value
systems.
And on one hand, yes, there
are negative sides to those.
There are also negative
sides to our value systems,
as we know very well.
The exploitation of women,
children, men, and everyone
who gets exploited in
our society as well.
It's just done in
a different way.
It's always done
with the notion of,
well, it's always in the
best interest of the market,
and it's the best
interest of the economy.
So we can justify
our exploitation.
But if it has to do
with cultural reasoning,
traditional reasoning,
that's invalid
compared to the idea
of market economics.
Then it's valid.
If you go and kill
people for money,
you're morally justified as
a mercenary, for example.
If you kill someone in the
name of God, you're immoral.
I'm not saying that
either one is moral.
I just think that--
>>REGINA: It's whoever's
interests are served.
>>STONE: Right.
It's ironic to basically
make that distinction.
So we came to this place
of amalgamating all people
around the notion
of market economics
and the notion that well look
kids like Disney and Disney
actually frankly transformed
the entire world.
And up until the '60s,
'70s-- well, it was probably,
say-- yeah '50s,
'60s, '70s, you didn't
have children's entertainment.
You had fairy tales
that were told.
You had certain books
that were written.
>>REGINA: Even if it was
"Grimms' Fairy Tales."
>>STONE: Right.
The "Grimms' Fairy Tales."
But the culture was
about educating people
to become more wise,
more mature, more aware.
It was about educating-- how do
you say-- educating the masses
and bringing people together
as a community or a society.
You've had this total
inversion where everything
has become about
children's entertainment,
even to the place where
the major movies that are
coming out are for children.
If your major form of
entertainment and art
is directed towards
children, what
does that mean about the
mindset of the adults?
Where is their mind?
How intelligent and
mature can they be?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
No, exactly.
And so then you go to the notion
of the entrainment processes
of these films.
Just take Disney alone.
I mean, there's pretty
much the same theme
that runs through every single
Disney movie, which is a--
>>STONE: The place where
we have to repeat--
now they're just
remaking the old ones.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Just over and over again, which
had a very strong conditioning
effect on certainly
my generation,
because I was raised
on Disney films.
And I mean, it was a split.
I read the fairy tales,
"Grimms' Fairy Tales," I loved.
But also Disney, "Wizard
of Oz" and such as well
was one of the very early ones.
That started creating
a very unrealistic view
of what we were to expect
as we grew into life.
Well, that's the first
time masses of people
had been indoctrinated
in such an absolutely
delusional expectation of life.
>>STONE: How many women grew
up thinking that they were
going to meet Prince Charming?
>>REGINA: They're still waiting.
We're all still waiting.
If you were raised
on Disney, you're
probably still
waiting on some level,
even if it's subconscious
at this point.
>>STONE: And what
happened to the mothers?
>>REGINA: Right.
[LAUGHTER]
Exactly.
So basically with this
shortened attention span,
with throwing
entertainment at it,
I mean, one obvious
outcome could
be you're creating a
very compliant consumer
species for one, right?
>>STONE: Precisely.
>>REGINA: And would you say
that's part of the agenda
right there, to be able to
feed the global machine?
>>STONE: Precisely.
Exactly.
The notion is,
productivity can be
done more efficiently
and quickly, as far
as what we've been able to
achieve by computer technology.
And this is wonderful.
Under rational
conditions, we should all
be able to live with a
decent standard of living,
with access to food,
with access to education.
And most of our time
actually would not
have to be devoted to
doing menial tasks anymore,
because the machines would
take over menial jobs,
and we could have more
time to do creative tasks.
But it's interesting
that we actually
seem to be working
longer hours, right?
We're working longer
hours for less pay
to basically just achieve
the standard of living that,
frankly, as far as real
wages are concerned,
we actually have lower wages
in America than we did in 1970.
And the standard of living
in places like Detroit
has collapsed since 1960.
So Detroit's an example
of other cities.
I mean, it's just--
it's indicative of
the problem that you
have in the middle class
of America shrinking.
You have most Americans,
an average loss
about a third of their wealth
since the 2009 collapse.
>>REGINA: But the stock
market's over 20,000.
>>STONE: Right.
Because we live in
the consumption model,
the consumption model basically
being debt-based consumption.
Which, as we know, will
not sustain itself forever.
At some point--
>>REGINA: The
bubble has to burst.
>>STONE: Well, the
scary thing is obviously
how they burst it as far as
does it become literally putting
people to work camps or building
ridiculous things like a wall
between here and Mexico.
It's about cutting off
the unemployed completely.
I mean, we're not a humane
society in that regard.
We don't believe in redeploying
people towards things that
are industrious,
infrastructure, industry, things
that help markets
thrive and grow.
We're more into the idea
of just, as you say,
market-based--
well, especially the stock
market, market-based success.
And so much of that is
basically monopoly capital--
or I would say
casino capitalism.
And that's what we
basically have seen,
is the explosion of
the casino economy
and the destruction of these
traditional working class
and middle class.
>>REGINA: I want to
go into the area--
because it's a passion of yours,
to really start understanding
and taking a look at what you
call empire and the elite,
and the hidden hand that seems
to be guiding a lot of what
we're talking about.
Because I know this
is a passion of yours.
It's what you did your
dissertation on as well.
And there are a couple of
funky, interesting little points
in here that we don't really
consider that you make.
>>STONE: Right, right.
Yeah, well, empire is
an interesting concept,
because people assume
America is now an empire.
And to me, it's a
question of having
a financial elite
that really are
the hub, the heart
of the empire.
And then that financial elite
basically buys influence
within the government, and as
well as intelligence services
that really have always been
tied to the financial elite.
And essentially,
they look abroad
to control resources
globally, right?
And that tends to be where
the deployment of military
goes towards controlling
access to natural resources.
But see, the American
empire is really
just the extension of the
Anglo-American empire,
the British Empire.
And that was the focus of,
as you mentioned, the book.
First it was my
thesis at college,
and then it became a
book, "New World Order."
Because it was this
concept of, wait.
It's not just America looking
to expand itself globally.
It's actually this
Anglo ideology about--
>>REGINA: Trying to re-exert
itself on this land.
>>STONE: Well, precisely.
And this ideology that we
have the greatest rule of law
and the system of laws,
so we have-- basically,
the globe should follow
our control of finance,
of international
legal structures,
of basically-- even the UN,
basically, was a construct very
much of the US and the
British working together
to formulate that
body, and having
a tremendous amount of influence
over the structures of it.
So it was a move towards
global government.
That was really what the
new world order was about,
played out by the British,
through their proxy,
being the Americans who at the
time of the Second World War
were just so much more powerful
militarily, financially
than the British were.
But the British were
still very influential.
All our banks.
People forget that all our banks
were actually either originated
or financed by the British.
So if you take JP Morgan,
it was Morgan, Grenfell.
It was a British collaboration.
Brown Brothers Harriman
was a British bank,
and that became the
Harriman family.
The Bush family came out of
the Brown Brothers Harriman.
The Rockefellers got a lot of
their financing from England.
The Warburgs came
over from England.
So it was a lot of influence out
of the British financial system
based in the city of London.
And that's, to me, still the
heart-- the city of London,
Wall Street is still the
heart of global influence
and control.
>>REGINA: There's also an
old white man ideology there
that persists.
And let's talk about
that, because it's not
an old white man's
world anymore.
And the lengths that we'll
go to to protect what
they have created for themselves
at the detriment of all
the rest.
>>STONE: Precisely.
Precisely.
It's an old white man's world.
And frankly, it never was.
But they had to
exert themselves,
as I said, through ideology,
through this notion of,
we have the rule of law.
We have to train you, and
basically give influence to you
through the IMF, for example.
If you want to have
access to money,
it has to come through
the IMF and the World Bank
and our debt schedule,
basically, and our loan system.
The thing about
the new world order
was that really, it was going to
be a process of bringing people
from Africa, Asia, the
Middle East to study
at Oxford, for example.
That was the Rhodes
Scholarship process.
And then after that, it
was to study at Harvard.
And you know, and our American
eastern establishment schools
to train them in our ways of
doing business and finance
and thinking.
And then basically, becoming
the leaders of those--
>>REGINA: Well, that all sounds
nice at face value, right?
On one level.
But Cecil Rhodes was actually
instrumental in the creation
of apartheid as well.
>>STONE: Well, again, it's
an imperialist philosophy,
because we believe that
our school of thought,
our free trade liberalism is the
pinnacle of the way the world
should--
>>REGINA: They know the way
the world should be run.
They know best.
>>STONE: Yeah.
And you take systems like even
in Islam, you can't actually--
you cannot issue debt
with interest, right?
That's actually against
the law in Islam.
And it was supposed to be
the law within Christianity
and Judaism as well, right?
Was this notion of, you can't
have usurious interest rates
and whatnot.
You're not supposed to
issue debt with interest.
So we've basically swept
all that aside to say, well,
this is the nature of capitalism
and how it's going to work.
But there are
alternative schools
of how you can actually finance
corporations and businesses
to basically launch
themselves, get started.
They pay it back
to the government
or whoever's financing it,
and then they run themselves,
those businesses.
And you know, on the whole, it's
just the idea as we've seen,
this consolidation of power.
And it's very
evident if you look
at the nature of
the banking system,
and how we basically
have a handful of banks,
about five major banks in the
US, and they have almost half
of the depositors' wealth
in this country, right?
We didn't have the biggest
banks in the world in 1990.
It was during the Clinton
era that he actually
started t deregulate
and allow these banks
to become massive national
banks and transnational banks.
So you see this consolidation
of wealth and power,
and you see it also in the
corporate realm the notion
that there's actually a
thousand corporations that
have the assets, that basically
manage the assets of most
of the planet.
Right?
So this type of consolidation
has been taking place,
and this is the dark
side of globalization,
because we're not necessarily
empowering-- sure,
you could say the average wage
has gone up in a few countries
like China and others.
But on the whole, we're not
empowering the small businesses
and the middle class, working
class to actually-- you
know, even the unions
have fallen away
while these corporations have
become bigger and bigger,
right?
And we say, unions are bad.
Well, unions are
from a corporation,
but they're supposed
to represent
at least the little man.
>>REGINA: Right.
And there is an attempt.
I mean, I have read
various outlines, programs,
agendas that would have to do
with the reemergence of funding
for small and mid-sized
businesses, SMEs, right?
And yet, at the same time,
it's a seemingly overwhelming
obstacle to wresting money
out of the existing system
to be able to flow it
back into more egalitarian
systems of finance that allow
people to express themselves
in their own community, to
hire their friends and family,
to have complex,
rich society again.
It's been shut down.
How do you see that
reversing itself?
>>STONE: There was
a lot of issues.
I mean, the problem you're
dealing with ultimately
is, we could say, human
nature is averse to risk
and wants to go with the winner.
That's the big problem-- the big
issue within human psychology,
right?
So why should I invest
in a small business in--
>>REGINA: That's what
built this country
and every other country.
>>STONE: Why should I
invest in a small business
in a neighborhood when I can
invest in Starbucks or Apple,
or one of these
major corporations?
As opposed to
saying, well, I like
to do business with
this small business,
because they're in
my neighborhood.
I know the people.
And I'd rather see the
money in their hands
than someone I've
never met before.
This is like a way of
shifting the psychology.
But we have a problem where
basically the seven biggest
industries globally--
gambling, sex trafficking,
prostitution, arms, drugs, oil,
and energy, right?
I mean, this is a tremendous
issue that we're dealing with,
that we basically, as
humans, we love the vices,
and the government
basically capitalizes on it
by turning those into
things that are supposed
to be illegal, and then allowing
the money to be laundered
into the system anyway.
And actually exploiting
these illegalities
to create massive money-making
schemes like the war on drugs,
the war on terror.
Ways of just putting people into
jails for victimless crimes.
You know, for suspicion of
their being dangerous people.
But end of the
day, we're actually
turning them into criminals
through this institution--
to institutionalization
through the prison system.
And the amount of
money, again, that
flows in the private
prison sector
into the enforcement sector.
I mean, it's like--
it's insane how we're
capitalizing it and reinforcing
vice and destructive activity
and behavior, as opposed
to inciting positive things like
constructing high-speed rail
systems, putting money
into new energy sectors,
putting money into new markets.
You know, again,
small businesses.
Allowing those small
stock exchanges
to replace the New
York Stock Exchange.
So again, like you
said, why can't we
have small stock
exchanges, and each--
>>REGINA: The proliferation
again of private banks, even
state banks.
You know, and again, when you
take it back to the elite,
go back to the
macro, you're talking
about exploiting human frailty
and desires and weaknesses
to create a bloated
black budget,
where the money simply
disappears into funding
whatever it is that they need.
Obviously, it's a capture of
resources and creating wars
and, you know, contracts
with their buddies
within the military
industrial complex.
>>STONE: It disappears
offshore and never comes back.
>>REGINA: They do it off of us.
>>STONE: Yes.
>>REGINA: The thing is,
they're exploiting our weakness
to start the whole
chain of events.
>>STONE: Right.
And then they fleece you
twice, because basically, they
create a bubble,
they create a crash,
and then they have
the public foot
the bill to the private sector.
>>REGINA: And yet the only
thing common to all of this
is us, right?
We're the ones that can choose
to support their industries
that they're creating,
whether it's gambling,
whether it's drugs,
prostitution and whatnot.
Child pornography.
We, the base, at the base of
that pyramid that they like
to show, are the ones
that are supporting it
through our voluntary giving
of our resources over to that.
So it really has
to stop with us.
There has to be something
that creates a kind of--
and I don't use
this word lightly--
but a kind of a new
morality on the planet
so that we can't be
fleeced the first time.
Then there's nothing to
fleece the second time, right?
>>STONE: Right.
And that's the
ideal, I would say.
The ideal situation
is where we basically
form within bands of people
that are aware, awake,
conscious beings, trying to
basically-- working together
in new communal structures.
Thanks to globalization,
it doesn't
have to be in the
small scale anymore.
You don't have to just be
your neighbors and friends.
You can literally be global.
And in a sense,
it's almost like,
you know, a new Silk Road
concept, but a global Silk
Road, where we can
trade with each other.
And we can recognize,
you know what?
I want to support that business.
I want to eat organic foods.
I want to eat from
the local farmers.
I want to support the local
shops, the local manufacturers.
And also, 3D printing
is helping, by the way,
for a lot of those manufacturers
on a smaller scale,
bringing industry
back closer to home.
But at the end of the
day, it's about people
who are recognizing
the conscious community
to work with each other.
I think that's the key,
creating new banks, new banking
systems that we can loan to
each other and help each other.
It may not have the scale
of finance behind it
that a Citibank would have.
But I think it could
be done, and done
in a way that was
old-fashioned in the sense of,
you invest things that you
can touch and understand.
Derivatives, no one understood.
That's why when--
>>REGINA: They
didn't understand.
>>STONE: Well, when Michael
Moore did his last documentary,
and he said, in Iceland, the
women ran the bank in Iceland,
they said, we didn't
invest in derivatives,
because we didn't understand
what the heck they
were talking about.
And so as a result, their
bank didn't collapse.
Right?
So what happened to that
notion of, like, investing
in things you can have
a tangible product from?
Investing in people,
investing in people
doing productive work as
opposed to this notion
of just investing in money and
the idea of creating wealth
for money in
speculation on things
that have actually no tangible
result, because it's literally
just--
it's a casino game
of betting, right?
So it's like betting
on a basketball game.
Well, the basketball game
can generate some revenue.
But most of this
betting around it
is not actually doing
anything productive with it.
It's just taking money
out of your pocket
and putting it in mine.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and we're on
exactly the same page on this.
And I think, you
know, the frustration
has been that human beings think
through activism in particular
that somehow, we're going
to equalize the system.
We're going to somehow
shift the nature of the game
and wrest the money away from
the Citibanks of this world,
and the other people who
control those money supplies.
That's not going to happen.
Now they could crash
of their own accord
if they keep misstepping
the way they are.
But the little man, so to
speak, the average person
isn't going to wrest money
away from that system
to pump into their own.
I've watched many people
behind the scenes trying to do
this over the last 10 years.
People that are well-connected
in the world of intelligence
and finance that are
really working hard--
I mean, on some of
the other shows,
they call them the white hats.
And I know some of
this quite personally.
And you can fantasize about it.
We can wish and we can hope.
But the reality is, I have seen
absolutely no forward movement
toward any of that happening.
And again, it's because
the forces of corruption
where the money already
exists is so great and holding
so tightly.
So we're down to what?
Local currencies.
We're down to goodwill.
We're down to creativity.
That's where I want to
go with the last part
of this conversation,
which is, you had
a fine background in education.
You went to Princeton.
You had a lot of advantages.
Now we're looking
at a time where
we need to move past the
industrial era of education.
It does create good worker bees,
but it is not serving the task
at hand to create
our own system,
recreate our own societies.
How do you look at
education from here on out?
These little brilliant
kids coming up.
Are you going to
stick them in there
and memorize their times
tables and that's it,
and give them a
job as an engineer
out the other end of
the sausage machine?
>>STONE: Well, I
would love to have
them taking jobs as engineers.
Actually, most American kids
aren't doing engineering jobs.
They're actually
going to be having
Chinese and Indian kids, and--
>>REGINA: Well, no, that's true.
So maybe I misspoke, because
those have been outsourced.
>>STONE: I think engineering
is a tremendous craft--
>>REGINA: It is.
But you know what I'm saying.
There are people that
break the design--
>>STONE: This indoctrination
process, I would call it.
And I think the
main thing is if you
want to transform
education, you have
to transform the way
that we understand
learning and creativity.
You can't learn by being
forced to memorize something
or being told something.
You have to learn
by experiencing it.
If you want to understand
the Pythagorean theorem,
for example, you
challenge the students.
You say, let's
recreate this issue.
We have a square here.
How do we know the
length of this side
if we don't know the
length of that side, right?
You start posing these
types of questions.
How do we know degrees?
And you can literally
recreate the process
of scientific, mathematical
discovery, creative innovation.
You can do these
things with students
and have them
interacting with you.
And so I'm not opposed to
the idea of school systems.
I'm all for it.
I'm all for people, if they want
to take their kids out and do
private schooling and home
schooling, that's great too.
It's just-- it's the quality
of the actual teaching
and engaging process
of how much you're
willing to engage
the students and get
them interacting with you in
this process of discovery.
Because at the end of
the day, I remember
feeling very much
bored in the sense of,
oh, we've discovered everything.
We know everything.
There's nothing new.
There's nothing new under
the sun, that concept.
And then you start to actually
explore things, and oftentimes,
metaphysical things or
just reassessing science.
And you realize, wait a minute.
We really know nothing
about what humans are,
where we come from,
what we're doing here.
So then it becomes fascinating
to start to say, wait a minute.
My creativity, my imagination is
the treasure, and it has value.
And you can't write that off.
And you can't say, well, it
doesn't matter what you think,
because these are the facts.
And you study history,
and you're like,
you know almost nothing.
[LAUGHTER]
It's like really, we don't know.
>>REGINA: Well,
institutionalized education
is a product of the elite.
I mean, we can't disconnect
these things for specific
again, like,
creating video games
and such that created
short attention spans
to create a drive
toward consumption.
It's no different on the
production end of it,
so to speak, when you're talking
about the educational system.
And so how is that going to be--
>>STONE: Well, I always
just tell people, look.
When you're a child, you look
at children, they're so bright.
Their eyes are awake.
They're probably more
intelligent than their parents.
>>REGINA: You send
them to school,
it squashes that
light right out.
>>STONE: Well, does it?
It does in the sense that
if you don't have the time
to actually treasure
and value and give
that child unconditional love,
and this feeling of safety
and security to be
who they are, then
yes, it will be squashed out.
But that's also
what society does.
It doesn't matter if
it's school or not.
Once you start engaging
with your peers,
and they start
bringing their neuroses
and what their parents told
them, and then next thing
you know, your peers are
telling you, you know,
you can't do this.
You're fat, you're ugly,
you're this, you're that.
You start to become brainwashed.
>>REGINA: Social norms
start becoming prevalent.
>>STONE: Exactly.
And so it's a question of--
I was tell people, trust
your individuality.
It's unfortunate that 80% of
the population wants to conform.
That's my average.
About 80% want to
conform, 10% want
to be individual and lead
and do the right thing,
and 10% are sociopathic
and want to lead us
in the wrong
direction completely
for their own
manipulation and gain.
But 80% of the people
probably want to conform,
and that's a problem.
So it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter if
it's institutionalized
at a high school--
>>REGINA: But I think the
institutions are actually
creating that also,
because you're not--
to create from
one's own curiosity
is really not part of the
standard state education.
First of all,
music's knocked out.
Art's knocked out.
PE's knocked out.
Every expression except
the basics are knocked out.
That's not a
creative environment.
And yes, you can overcome it
at home as parents and say, OK.
We're sending you to
this awful school.
Sorry about that.
You have to go.
And then do what you can
to reverse it and give
lots of opportunity
for flourishing
of creativity at home.
But how do you start--
>>STONE: With the
conformities in society.
That's why, for thousands
of years, we go to war.
And people follow--
like Tolstoy-- was it
Tolstoy who
basically said, look,
soldiers, if they
lay down their arms,
there'd be no more war, right?
But the soldiers
are indoctrinated,
and they've been doing it
for thousands of years.
And you go to work, and
you're indoctrinated
into believing you have it.
You have to do a certain
job to make money as opposed
to saying, wait a minute.
Let me do what I love.
Let me trust who I
am as an individual.
Let me follow my path, and
let the money, let the wealth,
let the success come to me.
We need to change the mindset.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So you're not cynical.
You're not saying that 80% are
destined to be conformist--
>>STONE: We have been.
But that doesn't mean
we're destined to be.
>>REGINA: I don't
think we are either.
I mean, I'm still holding
out for the notion.
If you give a child
the opportunity
to explore and create
and ask the right--
ask questions, any questions,
and have a good response,
an honoring response
from their parents,
I think we can recreate society.
But that means a
massive revolution
of the education system.
>>STONE: It starts there.
It starts there.
>>REGINA: Well, that
starts at home, I guess,
and then it goes there.
>>STONE: Right.
Starts at home and it
goes to the schools.
It's such a monumental task.
It's almost daunting.
>>REGINA: I know it is.
I mean, I just--
I shouldn't have tossed that
out to you the last one minute
of the show, but there you go.
>>STONE: This is why we pray.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
[LAUGH]
And we engage in our
own understanding
of what the realms function
like, and our place within it.
>>STONE: Precisely.
>>REGINA: So any final thought?
We only have, like,
a second left.
[LAUGH]
>>STONE: No, I think that
what you hit is exactly--
you hit on exactly the
point, which is to say,
let's trust that there is a
grand design that's guiding us.
So that even though this world
may look like hell oftentimes--
it seems like we live
in a kindergarten
of the "Planet of the
Apes" half the time, right?
I wonder-- maybe we really are
just apes on a spinning rock.
But, no.
I really believe that we're here
with a purpose, for a reason.
We have to trust that destiny,
and let the universe unfold.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
And as I've said
before, I mean, I
think we're this
beautiful hybrid species
if we can just kind of wake up.
Wake up.
Thanks so much, Sean.
It's been a lot of
fun talking with you.
I'm glad to get to
know you this way.
I hope you've enjoyed getting
to know Sean a bit more.
And for our reverse
interview together, you
can also go to Buzzsaw archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]